THE NECESSITY FOR THIS IDEAL 131

Jesus as we may, if we accept his own
conception of his mission, the fear of
future wrath for ourselves or others
ought never to affect the question of our
labour to increase his personal following.
It is impossible to suppose that the
thought of the future doom was St.
Paul's reason for preaching Christ, his
reason was rather his conception of a
supernatural light and life which lifted

the Christian above his fellows as much
here as hereafter. Did St. John labour
for the sake of rescuing men from death?

Did St. Peter promise to feed the flock
to save it from destruction? This con-
ception of their motive power arose in
the “dark’' and most pharisaic ages of
the Church‚ and still taints our own.
Theirs was still the inspiration of “glad
tidings of great joy,'' and just in pro-
portion as this revelation of gladness is
recovered and taught, is the true mind of
Jesus brought into perfect correspondence
with the true need of the world.

