THE SlN OF SIGHT 171

which denies it. In special instances,
where personal holiness has appealed to
our better understanding, we have all,
of course, overleaped our sense of
superiority. In other cases we are will—
ing to embrace with almost hysterical
sympathy whole classes which oppose us,
if not in those things we consider most
essential. But in all cases where we
believe ourselves to have a means of
grace ordained of God which others re-
ject—be it belief in the doctrine of
substitution, or in the authority of
Rome, the use of rightly administered
sacraments or the use of an infallible
Bible3 be it abstinence from the play—
house, or abstinence from the con-
venticle—it engenders in us the general
belief that the commonalty of men in
the opposite class are our inferiors in
good sense, morals, and piety. Because
in any moment of sels-examination we
are willing to confess ourselves the
greatest of sinners‚ it does not follow

