52 PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

from their calculations the high visions
and exalted ideals of saith.

Only five times they are reported to
have come voluntarily to Jesus, once ask-
ing a sign, once to entrap him with regard
to tax-paying, once with the quibble
about marriage in the after-life, once
questioning his authority, once asking if
he heard the praises of the children. He
hurled against them no woes and de-
nunciations as against the Pharisees and
their scribes. It is our possible friends
that we upbraid, not our certain enemies.
It appears that he looked upon the
Pharisees as the greater sinners, because
they had the spiritual faculty which
might have been turned towards his
lightÍ¾ the Sadducees were lower in the
scale of creation. They, the priests,
whose function it was to represent the
people before God, were so mundane as
to be beneath remonstrance, except for a
scathing light cast upon them in certain
parables. In these we see them going

