oo PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

we count fulness of life, was left to be
sanctified.

In greatest contrast to this is the
profound teaching of St. John. To
declare of a man on whose breast he had
leaned that all things were fashioned
according to his thought, is to suggest
that the responsibility of the Creator is
very closely akin to that of human
authorship, so making it impossible to
conceive that whole realms of his creation
are omitted from his care if he be indeed
â€œfaithful'' St. John goes on to assert
that God did not send his son into the
world to condemn the world, but to save
it. This is in unity with the whole life
and teaching of Jesus 3 for not only does
he not relegate anything except lack of
faith to the kingdom of evil, but he so
expends energy to express his loathing
of the mental attitude of the Pharisees
that we cannot suppose he came to save
the Church merely into a lai-ger and
nobler form of separatism.

