THE LESSONS OF THE CONTRAST 119

give his life in undying effort to open
the eyes of others to this their joy.
There will be increasing struggle all
along the path3 but remember‚ little
children, what the F ather sends each day
of pain and conflict is enough for growth.
You need not try to increase it by need—
less asceticism with the hope of adding a
cubit; the F ather knows best3 and re—
ject all fear or anticipation of ill, for
sorrow is always measured and transient,
the means to an end more worthy of
your attention. Jesus never said,
“Sufficient unto the day is the good
thereof.'' By commanding to reject
fear and encourage hope, he takesj the
chalice of each day, already full of the
Father's benefits‚ and then pours into it
joyous expectation till it brims over.
Certainly no sou] can so rest in this
teaching as to give up its self-seeking
without entering into a relation with the
teacher which, whatever name we give it,
transcends all other relations. The faith

