THE GUIDING VOICE 159

disciples took to Jesus questions involv-
ing issues in which the whole world was
concerned, he gave them no exact
information, even on points which must
have seemed to them essential to their
usefulness as teachers. His answers to
all questions, of followers or enemies,
are at once like a rift in the heaven
above, and a yawning of the earth
beneath. They open the mind to
heights and depths involved in the
matter, before undreamed of, and fill
the new sense of ignorance which they
create with some aphorism of limitless
significance. We cannot conceive Jesus
replying to any deep question with a
literal answer such as the questioner
would be well able to presage. No one
who has entered humbly into the study

of the Gospels can suppose that if some
one had come and said, “Lord, did

Moses write all that is ascribed to
him?” “Is the story of Abraham a
transcript of fact? ’' Jesus would have

