THE CHRIST-LIFE 71

bore witness to man’s inbred knowledge
of this necessary relation between Creator
and creature; but the leaders of that
Judaism which sprang from the separatist
movement of Ezra‘s revival had lost the
felt ignorance of adoration in their re-
ligious zeal, and by their literal theo-
logy had made the pride of dogma the
very gate of heaven. Jesus, the more
because he had submitted to the fetter
of the finite mind, must have felt un-
utterable woe when, by the unerring
instinct of his divine heart, he per-
ceived to the full the shame and, as it
were, impregnable falsity of such self-
assurance. Believing that the very heart
of God was his heart, we realise that he
must have felt this, and can follow his
words with understanding when we hear
him say, with infinite sadness, “If ye
had been blind ye should have had no
sin: but now ye say, ‘ We see’ ; there-
fore your sin remaineth.'’

