33 PRo CHRisTo ET ECCLESIA

are better3 they go into the kingdom
before you.'' Thus the teaching of his
practice, added to and filled out by the
teaching of his words, appeared to the
moralists of that day inimical to the
righteousness of their nation.

Take, as an example of this, those
seemingly gratuitous defiances of ordi-
nary Sabbath observance, such as telling
the impotent man to carry his bed, and
allowing his disciples to eat the ears of
corn. Absurd as were scribal definitions
of the main Sabbath laws, without much
definition it would have been impossible
to apply those laws to the life of the day.
The Jews alone among the nations stood
for the Sabbath. Foreign influences were
pressing against it on every side. In this
the Lord appeared to side with heathen
influence against the faithful Jew.

If we look at the behaviour of Jesus
in his friendly intercourse with the
Pharisees, we shall see how this atti-
tude was emphasised. The washing of

