42 PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

unresting zeal for converts, and with a
sense also that there was something of
redeeming force for the many in the
faithfulness of the feW. Had they lived
nowadays we might have defended them,
saying how very good they were—“very
narrOW‚ bigoted, in fact, but that is
almost a necessary consequence of in—
tensity.'' Jesus Christ called them
“ children of hell.’'

We can estimate the earnestness of
the Pharisaic retort that his inspiration
was Satanic when we again reflect what
would be our mental attitude towards a
being as evidently exalted and powerful
who should to-day appear and contradict
what seem to us the obvious tenets of
revealed religion, reviling us for our
favourite forms of piety. Let us con-
ceive of him, for example, handling our
canon of Scripture as roughly as the
most destructive of the higher critics,
showing himself as indifferent to sacra-
ment and religious service as our modern

