14 PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

growing sense of the importance of
individuality and of the faithfulness of
God, so should the fuller recognition of
these same truths lead us on to the clear
conviction that the rewards of the next
world can be none other than the appro-
priate fulfilment of character in this ; and
in interpreting the promises of Christ to
his own disciples we must realise that
the heaven of humility and love, the
region nearest himself which he assigns
to them alone, is to be distinguished
from the “outer darkness‚'' as earth's
best love scenes are distinguished from
its lower goods as well as from its worst
evils.

All honest seeking after good, how—
ever mistaken‚ must attain to such
character as is moulded by the quality
of saith and hope and effort exercised.
Each of us—pharisee, sadducee, or dis-
ciple—must go to “his own place.'’
Whether in the immediate paradise, the
“third heaven'’ of God's humility and

