44 PRO cHRffiTo ET ECCLEsm

majority of the Church on such a friend
of sinners. The Christian Church may
not have gone so far aside from the
mind of God as the above picture
suggests; all that is argued is that the
Pharisees with good intention had di-
verged thus far, so that the charge of
Satanic possession was a natural one for
them to make.

We have before said that, at least to
those who believe that Jesus was, is,
“very God of very God‚‘' it must be
wholly incredible that the chief feature
of his life on earth was the struggle with
a local and transient form of scriba]
casuistry. Bad as this waS‚ it must have
had its root in something worse for this
contest to have been chosen as an object—
lesson for all time and for all nations.
The very fact that scribal puerilities
appear to us like a bad fantastic dream
which some fools dreamed once to the
unending laughter of the world, ought
surely to prove to us that it was not at

