148 PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

terrors of pain, or calamity befalls a
whole class of vicious or schismatic
persons, and we say, “ It is well ; God is
speaking to them.'’ In much of this,
perhaps in all of it, there breathes the
exact spirit of the Inquisition. There is
no cruelty so bad as that which springs
from the conscience, no eye so pitiless to
the man in the flame as that which sees
God setting light to the faggot. If we
realised that Jesus went about converting
hearts, solely, as far as his own will was
concerned, by the discipline of joy, we
shall have a truer test for our own
motives ; for at times when great gladness
befalls those to whom we feel opposed,
we can ask ourselves whether we are 35
heartily glad that God is giving them that
sort of opportunity 35 if he had sent grief.

But there is another, the greatest of
all the aspects of the Christ-life, with
which the idea of 3 paramount value for
grief is incompatible, and this idea, by
paralysing evangelical power, works death

