68 PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

the insight of humility, from striving
after independence to striving for de-
pendence.

It is not strange that Jesus, stepping
forth into the midst of the Church which
had not as yet seen God's humility‚
should have found it in need of refor—
mati0n3 what is exceedingly strange is,
that before the Church's most ardent
supporters had had time to fully under-
stand and give their final word of enmity,
he, the patient Lamb of God, had cried
shame upon thern. It was in the early
days of his popularity with the careless
multitude that he pointed his teachings
of holy modesty by warnings against the
established forms of saintliness—warn-
ings which were almost derisive. At

the outset he said that the priests were
in league with thieves, and called the

Pharisees hypocrites. He was sur-
rounded by crying evils which had no
excuse of pious intenti0n; against none
of these does he point the finger of

