22 PRO CHRISTO ET ECCLESIA

form one in harmony with priestly con-
servatism. Thus the party of the Sad-
ducees represents a temper of mind, a set
of opinions, quite as much as the policy
of a ruling class. Briefly, Sadduceeism
was characterised by' sober reason and a
reverence for that part of the national
religion which had become historic: in
religion they did not believe in adding
to the doctrine of their fathers; in
secular matters their judgment was not
biassed by the enthusiasms of faith. It
is probable, despite much opinion to the
contrary, that true faith is never con—
servative; it must push onward‚ and
root itself in the future. It would seem,
also, that genuine conservatism can never
seek to realise gain by means of loss,
the essential 'of godliness. The Saddu-
cees were conservative in a very high
degree.

The law enthusiasts entered their pro—
fession by choice. Almost all the devout
among the common people, and some of

