THE CHRIST-LIFE 63

With the eyes of lover or parent we
may catch such glimpses of the ideal
attitude of man to God, of man to man,
that for an hour we know what our
habitual pride is; otherwise we are all
pride-blind, just as some are deaf to
harmony or blind to colour. The true
lover flouted by his bride's first fit of
selfishness, the parent heart-stricken by
unfilial conduct, may understand, if they
will, that they share the habitual wist—
fulness of divine desire for human love,
may realise, too, what joy might be if
hearts on earth became in truth members
one of another. Raised into a purer
vision by their God-like emotion‚ they
may perceive before their tears are dried
that heaven demands a devotion to God
not less personal and intense than that
of the closest human relationship‚ and a
friendship with men than which our in—
timacy with and love for ourselves could
not be greater. But with the passing of
their tears their realisation becomes again

